Internships not only enhance the CV but also enhances other aspects such as
1) Experience in the Corporate World:
An intern gets the requisite professional exposure in an environment which enables him/her to get hands-on experience 
of the work. This facilitates the intern to analyze the different career choices available and decide on the career 
that can be pursued.
2) Build your own network:
As part of the internship, one is required to attend meetings and various events organized by the company where one gets
 a chance to meet and interact with experts and specialists in different fields. This not only helps in making new 
contacts but also in communicating in a professional environment. Liaisoning with experts gives one the opportunity 
to procure references for any new jobs that an intern may be interested in. Internships may also help in getting the
 guidance of a professional mentor which would further help in honing one’s skills.
3) Resume Builder:
Experience gained during internships gets added in the resume which greatly adds to its value in terms of getting a 
suitable job as employers always prefer someone with a good work experience over someone lacking it.
4) Management of Time:
Time management is crucial in any profession, whether it is presentations, meetings, finishing tasks at the scheduled 
time etc. Internship in a professional environment teaches a person to value time and to become adept at time management 
which adds to the personal and professional growth of the intern.
5) Foundation of the Career :
While choosing internships a person should keep his/her interests and career prospects in mind as the right internships 
set the tone for future job prospects. Employers gauge the potential of interns depending upon their performance and in 
most cases hire them on completion of their tenure.
To sum up, it can be said internships provide the interns a means to enhance their social and personal skills along 
with 
various other aspects viz, time management, networking etc. which boosts the chances of landing a dream job.




To get hands on experience on Real Time projects.
To earn a certificate of internship.
To get deep knowledge of your domain.
To be ahead of 10000 students.
To be serious about your career and taking the stepping stone.
To have vast knowledge of Industry.
To make CV impressive.
To get exposure of industry and pressure their employees feel.




How Important is an Internship to Launch a Career in Computer Science?
If you’re interested in being a programmer or researcher, you probably want to know how important a computer science 
internship is when beginning your career. 
An internship can be valuable, but it can also be a waste of time, depending on the company that hires you as an intern. 
In general, an internship is not necessary for getting a job as a programmer, but it can be very helpful when starting a 
career in research.
Starting a Computer Science Career
If you’re planning to go to graduate school, you should definitely apply for as many interesting summer internships as 
you can find, but if you’re planning to go into software design, an internship isn’t really necessary. However, a good 
internship can give you useful experience and possibly some connections in the industry, so don’t overlook programming 
internships just because you don’t want to be a researcher. The most important step to take when preparing for a career 
in software design is learning how to build programs that work. To get good at programming, you need to work on projects 
with other programmers, and you can find plenty of excellent opportunities on open-source networks like GitHub and Google 
Code.
An internship is useful for getting some corporate experience or a little job credit for your rsum if you want to work 
in a corporate environment, but it won’t teach you how to code. When you start applying for programming jobs, your 
potential employers will test you on your programming knowledge, and these tests will be similar to the exams you take in 
your data structures, algorithms and software design courses. You will need to know how to design software with the 
Unified Modeling Language, how to choose the most efficient algorithms and how to debug a program.
Depending on the job you apply for, you will also need to be proficient in one or several programming languages that 
you probably won’t learn in college. If you find an internship that will put you to work building software with other 
programmers, you should definitely grab it, but if it’s just a position shadowing another worker, you may be better off 
honing your programming skills on your own. One of the biggest complaints from employers is that most programmers fail 
their interview tests, so getting your coding knowledge as sharp as possible will put you ahead of the pack.
Finding Research Internships
Graduate students should apply for internships doing interesting research because it will give them real work experience. 
Many of these positions can be tedious for interns, but you don’t always have much of a choice. The researchers who have 
already earned their degrees get to do the interesting part of the work, and the students take care of the less glamorous, 
laborious part. There are always positions open at universities, so you can apply for the ones you find interesting around 
the summer and winter breaks. They’re usually merit-based, so keeping your GPA as high as possible will help you get accepted.
Computer science is one of the most popular majors these days because the demand for software engineers is at an all-time 
high. If you love designing software, writing code and figuring out solutions to technical problems, you’ll probably 
benefit from completing a relevant computer science internship.



